## Proving Ground: Towards Computers as Mathematical CollaboratorsA collection of tools built towards the ultimate goal of computers becoming *collaborators* rather than *assistants* for doing Mathematics, based on *unsupervised learning* of mathematics using natural language processing, exploration and experimentation. At present, some of the components, in early stages of developement are:* Translating mathematical prose to the underlying logic and actions. These are based on the Stanford dependency parser.* Homotopy type theory foundations* Parsing expressions and prose into homotopy type theory.* Models for underlying logic and theories.* A general *aware* task system that invokes resources for tasks, records partial and complete solutions and controls workflow. This is intended to be a *resourceful* system following ideas of Marvin Minsky.* Generic evolvers and dynamics for making unbounded searches.* *Actor* interfaces for making unbounded searches in incremental steps without blocking, with example applications for factorising integers. ## MIT LicenseCopyright (c) 2013 Siddhartha GadgilPermission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copyof this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to dealin the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rightsto use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sellcopies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software isfurnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included inall copies or substantial portions of the Software.THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS ORIMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THEAUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHERLIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS INTHE SOFTWARE.**Note:** Parts of this software depend on other softwares distributed under various licences. In particular, the Stanford parser is licensed under *GPL*.